# Future Releases

The tool is work in progress and there is room for improvement for future versions of the tool. Selected aspects are documented below.

## Performance of the interactive graphic

The sketch data is relatively extensive. The WACOM tablet that we used in first tests records at a rate of 200 samples per second. Assuming that the participants actively draw for half of the time during a ten-minute drawing task, the tablet collects 60,000 samples during this time. Each time the drawing is updated, different computational operations are performed on the individual samples. Subsequently, elements of the SVG, which ultimately forms the interactive graphic, are updated accordingly. As the number of samples increases, so does the amount of computation required to update the graphics. This can lead to a delayed reaction of the graphics to user input. During playback, the timeout handler for updating the drawing can take up so much computing capacity that other elements of the application no longer run smoothly or react to user input. Accordingly, the update rate for the playback of the sketch data was configured to a relatively low 2 times per second.

One approach to make the graphics more responsive and to achieve a higher temporal resolution during playback is to reduce the spatial resolution. Path simplification algorithms such as [Ramer-Douglas-Peucker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramer%E2%80%93Douglas%E2%80%93Peucker_algorithm) or [Visvalingam](https://hull-repository.worktribe.com/output/459275) could be used for this purpose. One challenge is to design the labelling in such a way that the spatial resolution of the labelled data does not decrease compared to the raw data. At the same time, it must remain comprehensible for the user which data they are labelling. For example, the stroke selection tool could still add all points of a line to the selection, even though not all points are represented. Furthermore, the range selection tool could also select the points that are not displayed but lie within the range in the background. Other selection tools like the point selection tool or the brush may need revision. Similarly, it is unclear whether a user of the brush tool would add all points of the raw data within a drawn area to the selection. 
